we are going to talk about the ipfs
software architecture well we have
lights thank you
so how do those things are working when
you start a node you have the
initialization and the configuration is
getting loaded and the configuration is
actually instructing a bunch of services
that are providing different functions
in the data part we have the data store
service which is actually an interface
to the disk and to the memory and then
we have the block store which talks to
that to try to understand where is what
they have the blocks service which is
talking and Trenton sent what the rough
data is and then we have the dark
service which is understanding and what
this block of stuff is which is IPL D
basically we have a bunch of other
service like the pinging service and the
NFS service how does that better than
it's getting sent to the rest of the
network we are using the exchange
service which is a bit swap and it's
basically talking between the two parts
and then we have the provider service
which is saying hey you have this piece
of piece of stuff and I want to announce
it to the world how does it do it it's
using that those things are using the
alipio to be a nurse which is taking
care of the transport so how to actually
talk to whom and what and then the
loading routing which is the content
routing and there also be MPI pns
routing using the DHT that is used by
the name cysts which is that service
which is taking care of the IP NS of
course and then we have of course a
bunch of other floating in the network
start part services like pub sub
discovery and bootstrapping which is
kind of important then we have the
reporter that is lives there for medics
and telemetry the API and our beloved
gateway thank you
[Applause]